Unstructured data (numbers, strings, dates, etc.) have commonly no clear meaning unless stored in a data structure. There exists two main data structure types **collection** and **structure**.
## Structure 
A structure is made of a finite amount of labelled data entries (pair name and value) that are commonly of different types. It is an unordered **tuple**, of which entries are the result of a Cartesian multiplication of multiple sets. We often also call structure an entry. While storing structure data in operating memory, we do not save the names of each structures entries.
## Collection
A collection is made of an infinite amount of unlabelled data of a same type. Mathematically it is a set or a multi-set, because it allows for storing of multiples of the same value. Collections are also called an array, list, ordering, string. We can add into, read or take out elements from the collection. For this we use an iterator (a cursor into the collection). We can also use collective operations such as sum of all elements, average values, min, max or we can iterate through all elements. There can also exist several keys and or ordered relations between the elements.
## Object
Object is a structure that can be defined by a unique identification (OID, object identification) . This is used for storing data structures into databases. OID is usually generated by a Database Managment System and can be used in relations between object.
## Storing of Structured Data
Structured data is commonly made up of variously immersed (levelled) **structures** and **collections**. They can stored in a file in a binary format as they are stored in operation memory and what and how (**metadata**) is this data stored can be stored in another file.  This way of storing structured data is quite inefficient and so we commonly use some standardized format of storing data such as JSON, XML, YAML, etc., in which there are stored some of the metadata about the stored data (their names) and other metadata can be stored using Document Type Definition (DTD) or XML Scheme Definition (XSD) in case of XML. Format of these file is what we would call **meta2data** and does not have to be shared as it is already standardized.